# openapi-to-zod
Convert OpenAPI schemas to Zod schemas effortlessly.

## Description
openapi-to-zod is a utility library that converts OpenAPI JSON schemas into Zod schemas. This allows developers to leverage the power of Zod for schema validation and parsing in their TypeScript projects.

Whether you're working with APIs and need to validate incoming data against your OpenAPI definitions, or you're integrating with tools like Vercel AI, openapi-to-zod simplifies the process by generating Zod schemas directly from your OpenAPI JSON.

## Features
- Easy Conversion: Convert OpenAPI JSON schemas to Zod schemas with minimal effort.
- TypeScript Support: Strongly typed schemas for better developer experience.
- Flexible Integration: Use the generated Zod schemas in any context where Zod is supported.
- Supports OpenAPI 3.x: Compatible with OpenAPI 3.x specifications.

## Installation
Install openapi-to-zod using npm:

```bash
npm i openapi-to-zod
```

or with yarn
```bash
yarn add openapi-to-zod
```

or with pnpm
```bash
pnpm i openapi-to-zod
```

## Usage

You can import the generated bundle to use the whole library generated by this starter:

```javascript
import { parseOpenApiToZod } from "openapi-to-zod";

// Convert OpenAPI properties to Zod schema
const zodRecords = parseOpenApiToZod(openapiSchema);

for ( const [name, schema] of Object.entries(zodRecords) ) {
  // Current schema description, if defined.
  const description = schema._def.description;

  // Current schema parameters, see our test-cases for various http verbs both with requestBody and parameters.
  const requestArgs = schema;

  console.log({ name, description, requestArgs })
}
```


## Contributing
Contributions are welcome! If you'd like to contribute to `openapi-to-zod`, please open an issue or submit a pull request on GitHub.

### NPM scripts
 - `npm t`: Run test suite
 - `npm start`: Run `npm run build` in watch mode
 - `npm run test:watch`: Run test suite in [interactive watch mode](http://facebook.github.io/jest/docs/cli.html#watch)
 - `npm run test:prod`: Run linting and generate coverage
 - `npm run build`: Generate bundles and typings, create docs
 - `npm run lint`: Lints code
 - `npm run commit`: Commit using conventional commit style ([husky](https://github.com/typicode/husky) will tell you to use it if you haven't :wink:)

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License.

## Acknowledgments
This project was created with [TypeScript Library Starter](https://github.com/alexjoverm/typescript-library-starter).

## Contact
If you have any questions or issues, please open an issue on the GitHub repository.
